README.md, before:

# **Behavioral Cloning**

---

**Behavioral Cloning Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Use the simulator to collect data of good driving behavior
* Build, a convolution neural network in Keras that predicts steering angles from images
* Train and validate the model with a training and validation set
* Test that the model successfully drives around track one without leaving the road
* Summarize the results with a written report


[//]: # "Image References"

[image1]: ./examples/nVidia_model.png "nVidia model architecture"
[image2]: ./examples/data_distribution_udacity.png "Adjusted population for Udacity dataset"
[image3]: ./examples/data_distribution_myinput.png "Adjusted population for my dataset"
[image4]: ./examples/track1_run1.gif "Results"

---
### Files Submitted

#### 1. Submission includes all required files and can be used to run the simulator in autonomous mode

This repo includes the following files:
* `model.py` - the script to create and train the model
* `model.h5` - generated by above script, it contains a trained convolution neural network
* `drive.py` - (Udacity provided) script to drive the car in autonomous mode
* `track1_run1.mp4` - this is the front facing camera video generated during autonomous mode

#### 2. How to drive in autonomous mode using trained model
Using the Udacity provided simulator and my drive.py file, the car can be driven autonomously around the track by executing
```sh
python drive.py model.h5
```
---
### Model Architecture and Training Strategy

#### 1. Model Architecture

![alt text][image1]

Based on inputs from previous Udacity student (Paul Heraty, [Project Cheatsheet](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-selfdrivingcar/Behavioral+Cloning+Cheatsheet+-+CarND.pdf)), I started my project with the model from NVidia autonomous vehicle group (Mariusz Bojarski et al., [End-to-End Deep Learning for Self-Driving Cars](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/deep-learning-self-driving-cars/)).

To maximize utilizing CNN's parallelization capability, I added a few layers in the very beginning of the network, they are:

- **Normalization Layer:** this layer utilizes the `Lambda` layer from Keras, the images are normalized by `(x / 255.0) - 0.5`, it will result in a zero-mean
- **Cropping Layer:** this layer utilizes the `Cropping2D` layer from Keras, the images are cropped to only retain the most relative  information (middle of the view, removed top of the image where it's mostly sky, and bottom of the image where it's just the hood).

#### 2. Attempts to reduce overfitting in the model

To avoid overfitting in the model, I added L2 regularizer to each convolutional layer.

The model was initially trained with 10 epochs, but by observing the loss and epochs, 3 epochs is good enough to generate a working model, and it also helps to avoid over-fitting.

#### 3. Implementing Generator in Keras

As recommended in Project Instructions, implementing a generator is helpful when working with large amount of data, so that each time the model only pull a portion of data. This is a more memory-efficient way.

I created a subfunction called `generate_training_data(ALL_X, ALL_Y, batch_size)` to implement this feature, this function requires three inputs: (1) and (2) are ALL of the data for X (input) and Y (output); (3) is the batch size for each step. Here I set default batch size to 128.

#### 4. Appropriate training data

- **Collecting Training Data:** I acquired training data by running the simulator in "training mode", I drove the first track in forward direction one lap, then backward direction another lap.
- **Generalize Training Data Distribution:** Once the raw image data (file paths and steering angles) are loaded, the first thing I did was to check the distribution of number of training images vs. the steering angle. Imagining driving on the road, the most frequent steering angle would be no steering at all. Too many training data at one or few outputs might result in over-fitting or biased model, so I used a pre-processing algorithm (`preprocess_population()`) to generalize the distribution of training data. Below charts show the distribution of training data before and after the adjustment.
	![alt text][image2]
	![alt text][image3]
- **Augmenting Training Data:** an easy way to get more training data and also avoid over-fitting is to flip the training image horizontally, in the same time, the steering angle needs to be reversed too. I implemented this feature inside the generator, so each time when loading a batch of training data, it will also flip the image.
- **Separating Training and Validation Set:** I used `sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split` function to divide the original dataset into training and validation set, the validation set is 20% of the total original dataset.

---

### Results and Discussion

- **Model Training:** Training the model in workspace takes less than 30 minutes, thanks to the GPU power provided.  The loss function for both training set and validation set is less than 0.01.
- **Running the model:** I ran the simulator in Autonomous mode with the trained `model.h5` file and the results are very clean - the model runs perfectly on the first track. Below is a few seconds from the course. A full video (`track1_run1.mp4`) is uploaded. Watch the simulator screen at [My Youtube Page](https://youtu.be/siMhdIWpB6M).
![alt text][image4]

Commit message:

added chart to show loss function

README.md, after:

# **Behavioral Cloning**

---

**Behavioral Cloning Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:
* Use the simulator to collect data of good driving behavior
* Build, a convolution neural network in Keras that predicts steering angles from images
* Train and validate the model with a training and validation set
* Test that the model successfully drives around track one without leaving the road
* Summarize the results with a written report


[//]: # "Image References"

[image1]: ./examples/nVidia_model.png "nVidia model architecture"
[image2]: ./examples/data_distribution_udacity.png "Adjusted population for Udacity dataset"
[image3]: ./examples/data_distribution_myinput.png "Adjusted population for my dataset"
[image4]: ./examples/track1_run1.gif "Results"
[image5]: ./examples/MSE_evolve.png	"MSE vs Epochs"

---
### Files Submitted

#### 1. Submission includes all required files and can be used to run the simulator in autonomous mode

This repo includes the following files:
* `model.py` - the script to create and train the model
* `model.h5` - generated by above script, it contains a trained convolution neural network
* `drive.py` - (Udacity provided) script to drive the car in autonomous mode
* `track1_run1.mp4` - this is the front facing camera video generated during autonomous mode

#### 2. How to drive in autonomous mode using trained model
Using the Udacity provided simulator and my drive.py file, the car can be driven autonomously around the track by executing
```sh
python drive.py model.h5
```
---
### Model Architecture and Training Strategy

#### 1. Model Architecture

![alt text][image1]

Based on inputs from previous Udacity student (Paul Heraty, [Project Cheatsheet](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-selfdrivingcar/Behavioral+Cloning+Cheatsheet+-+CarND.pdf)), I started my project with the model from NVidia autonomous vehicle group (Mariusz Bojarski et al., [End-to-End Deep Learning for Self-Driving Cars](https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/deep-learning-self-driving-cars/)).

To maximize utilizing CNN's parallelization capability, I added a few layers in the very beginning of the network, they are:

- **Normalization Layer:** this layer utilizes the `Lambda` layer from Keras, the images are normalized by `(x / 255.0) - 0.5`, it will result in a zero-mean
- **Cropping Layer:** this layer utilizes the `Cropping2D` layer from Keras, the images are cropped to only retain the most relative  information (middle of the view, removed top of the image where it's mostly sky, and bottom of the image where it's just the hood).

#### 2. Attempts to reduce overfitting in the model

To avoid overfitting in the model, I added L2 regularizer to each convolutional layer.

The model was initially trained with 10 epochs, but by observing the loss and epochs, 3 epochs is good enough to generate a working model, and it also helps to avoid over-fitting.

#### 3. Implementing Generator in Keras

As recommended in Project Instructions, implementing a generator is helpful when working with large amount of data, so that each time the model only pull a portion of data. This is a more memory-efficient way.

I created a subfunction called `generate_training_data(ALL_X, ALL_Y, batch_size)` to implement this feature, this function requires three inputs: (1) and (2) are ALL of the data for X (input) and Y (output); (3) is the batch size for each step. Here I set default batch size to 128.

#### 4. Appropriate training data

- **Collecting Training Data:** I acquired training data by running the simulator in "training mode", I drove the first track in forward direction one lap, then backward direction another lap.
- **Generalize Training Data Distribution:** Once the raw image data (file paths and steering angles) are loaded, the first thing I did was to check the distribution of number of training images vs. the steering angle. Imagining driving on the road, the most frequent steering angle would be no steering at all. Too many training data at one or few outputs might result in over-fitting or biased model, so I used a pre-processing algorithm (`preprocess_population()`) to generalize the distribution of training data. Below charts show the distribution of training data before and after the adjustment.
  ![alt text][image2]
  ![alt text][image3]
- **Augmenting Training Data:** an easy way to get more training data and also avoid over-fitting is to flip the training image horizontally, in the same time, the steering angle needs to be reversed too. I implemented this feature inside the generator, so each time when loading a batch of training data, it will also flip the image.
- **Separating Training and Validation Set:** I used `sklearn.model_selection.train_test_split` function to divide the original dataset into training and validation set, the validation set is 20% of the total original dataset.

---

### Results and Discussion

- **Model Training:** Training the model in workspace takes less than 10 minutes, thanks to the GPU power provided.  The loss function for both training set and validation set is less than 0.1. Below is a chart showing the MSE reduction over epochs:

  ![alt text][image5]

- **Running the model:** I ran the simulator in Autonomous mode with the trained `model.h5` file and the results are very clean - the model runs perfectly on the first track. Below is a few seconds from the course. A full video (`track1_run1.mp4`) is uploaded. Watch the simulator screen at [My Youtube Page](https://youtu.be/siMhdIWpB6M).

  ![alt text][image4]
